Title: Jacob Smith
TopImage: images/people/jacob.jpg

Member since 2007
Bindle

was born in iowa and have spent a majority of my life there. have two brothers and two sisters and two parents. went to school and all that bs through high school. then decided to continue my education and study political science. got three years down the road and decided to quit. only had another year left and another major but i just could not sacrifice anymore of my life. seemed to be the cumulative effects of years of anger, frustration, and alienation towards ‘our’ society. got into punk rock music in junior high school time and that opened the doors to radical politics and alternative lifestyles. my politics evolved through the next couple of years until i became a self described anarchist. that label is one that i have held for many years and has become very important to me but i am not dogmatic about any of my beliefs. have developed my ideas and ethics based on my own desires and experiences. these inclinations coupled with feelings of humyns treatment (read: exploitation) of the non humyn world became too much. i quit school and became job and home free. riding trains, hitchhiking, eating out of dumpsters, exploring the US, and just floating with the wind. eventually the lifestyle i adapted was missing the content that i desired. my urge was/is to create a viable alternative to the destructive megamachine. so i started to work low level jobs for corporations that i wished to dismantle. went into debt to get some land in southern missouri and spent parts of two summers down there trying to homestead. the time down there just furthered my interest in homesteading. on an individual level it is a very difficult process, especially if ya have little money. the rest of the year when not in missouri i spent working and traveling. so this lead me to looking for others with interest in natural building, permaculture, and rural homesteading. found the Red Earth link off of the Dancing Rabbit web page. visited and fell in love with the rolling hills and the wildflowers and tall grasses. worked and traveled until spring ’07 at which point i came down here to live. have been digging garden beds, thinking about a forest garden, watching my chickens, riding my bike, exploring conservation areas, reading, playing ultimate, building a strawbale cabin, studying wildflowers, finding wild edibles, and watching trains zip by on the old Santa Fe line ever since.

afterword; five years down the line and still reside here. much has changed but mostly in a positive regard. spent much of the last three years on my current leasehold (blackbird farm) building and growing with the land. have constructed a light-clay straw house to live in, an outdoor kitchen, a couple of sheds, a chicken coop and financed a 1/2 acre pond. my skill-set has grown in many ways. seeking to cultivate a simple life in which i enjoy the fruits of my labor. and in that spirit i have planted 50+ fruit bearing trees and shrubs. have less than a 1/4 acre in garden space and soon will have about 1/2 acre of field crops. am still learning more than i can remember but also shedding the knowledge that has no place for a contrary farmer/agriculturist. i am thankful for what i have and hopeful for the future. not just mine but for all the critters and flora and dirt and sky and you as well. that one day industrial-technological-capitalist society will be a thing of the past.
